public/documentation/windows/build_crosswalk_for_windows.md, before:

# Building Crosswalk For Windows

1. Download and install [Microsoft Visual Studio 2013](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/downloads/download-visual-studio-vs.aspx). We do not support Visual Studio 2015 at the moment.

2. Install Git For Windows from http://git-scm.com/download/win and make sure it’s added to your PATH. Edit environment variables for your account. In the Windows Start menu, search for "Environment variables". Alternatively, click on the System icon in the Control Panel; then go to Advanced system settings and click the Environment Variables button. You should see this dialog box:

   <img src="/assets/win8.png" style="display: block; margin: 0 auto"/>

3. Clone depot_tools from Google by running:

   ```cmdline
   > git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git
   ```

   Make sure you add the `depot_tools` directory in your PATH using the documented procedure above.

4. In the Environment Variables dialog create new variables (using the “New...” button) and add:

   *  `GYP_GENERATORS` set to `ninja,msvs-ninja` (this will create Visual Studio solutions if you want to run Crosswalk for Windows inside the IDE)
   *  `DEPOT_TOOLS_WIN_TOOLCHAIN`  set to 0 (which will tell Crosswalk for Windows to use your installation of Visual Studio 2013)

5. Navigate where you want to checkout Crosswalk for Windows, create a directory, navigate into it, and pull the source:

   ```cmdline
   > mkdir crosswalk-src
   > cd crosswalk-src
   > gclient config --name=src/xwalk git://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk.git
   > gclient sync
   ```
   
It may take a while. Download size is >3GB.

## Build Crosswalk

At this point you have two alternatives :

*  Building from the command line
*  Building from Visual Studio

### Command line build
To build from the command line, navigate into crosswalk-src/src and invoke:

```cmdline
> ninja -C out/Release xwalk or ninja -C out/Debug xwalk
```

### Visual Studio build
To generate solution and project files, navigate into crosswalk-src/src and invoke:

```cmdline
> python xwalk\gyp_xwalk
```

To build in Visual Studio, open xwalk.sln from `crosswalk-src/src/xwalk` and you’re ready to go. Select a target and click Build (for example `xwalk`, or `xwalk_builder`). Please note that xwalk.sln actually has all the Chromium code as a dependency therefore xwalk.sln has something like 600 subprojects which requires a pretty powerful machine with a lot of RAM to be able to handle that correctly. We suggest using the [Funnel extension](http://vsfunnel.com/) which allows you to select which subproject you want to load.

Commit message:

Few fixes on Windows documentation.
- Make sure to tell users to use MSVS 2015 starting with Crosswalk 21
- Make sure to correctly tell to use target_arch=x64 in their GYP_DEFINES

public/documentation/windows/build_crosswalk_for_windows.md, after:

# Building Crosswalk For Windows

1. Download and install [Microsoft Visual Studio 2015](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/downloads/download-visual-studio-vs.aspx). If you are building a Crosswalk version before 21 Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 is required.

2. Install Git For Windows from http://git-scm.com/download/win and make sure it’s added to your PATH. Edit environment variables for your account. In the Windows Start menu, search for "Environment variables". Alternatively, click on the System icon in the Control Panel; then go to Advanced system settings and click the Environment Variables button. You should see this dialog box:

   <img src="/assets/win8.png" style="display: block; margin: 0 auto"/>

3. Clone depot_tools from Google by running:

   ```cmdline
   > git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git
   ```

   Make sure you add the `depot_tools` directory in your PATH using the documented procedure above.

4. In the Environment Variables dialog create new variables (using the “New...” button) and add:

   *  `GYP_DEFINES` set to `target_arch=x64` as Crosswalk only supports 64 bits builds.
   *  `GYP_GENERATORS` set to `ninja,msvs-ninja` (this will create Visual Studio solutions if you want to run Crosswalk for Windows inside the IDE)
   *  `DEPOT_TOOLS_WIN_TOOLCHAIN`  set to 0 (which will tell Crosswalk for Windows to use your installation of Visual Studio 2013)

5. Navigate where you want to checkout Crosswalk for Windows, create a directory, navigate into it, and pull the source:

   ```cmdline
   > mkdir crosswalk-src
   > cd crosswalk-src
   > gclient config --name=src/xwalk git://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk.git
   > gclient sync
   ```
   
It may take a while. Download size is >3GB.

## Build Crosswalk

At this point you have two alternatives :

*  Building from the command line
*  Building from Visual Studio

### Command line build
To build from the command line, navigate into crosswalk-src/src and invoke:

```cmdline
> ninja -C out/Release_64 xwalk or ninja -C out/Debug_x64 xwalk
```

### Visual Studio build
To generate solution and project files, navigate into crosswalk-src/src and invoke:

```cmdline
> python xwalk\gyp_xwalk
```

To build in Visual Studio, open xwalk.sln from `crosswalk-src/src/xwalk` and you’re ready to go. Select a target and click Build (for example `xwalk`, or `xwalk_builder`). Please note that xwalk.sln actually has all the Chromium code as a dependency therefore xwalk.sln has something like 600 subprojects which requires a pretty powerful machine with a lot of RAM to be able to handle that correctly. We suggest using the [Funnel extension](http://vsfunnel.com/) which allows you to select which subproject you want to load.
