documentation/Android_extensions/31-Run_on_Android.md, before:

# Run on Android

Building a Crosswalk Android application with extensions is almost identical to building any other Crosswalk Android, and uses the same `make_apk.py` script (see the [*Run on Android* documentation](#documentation/getting_started/run_on_android)). The main difference is that an additional `--extensions` option is required, to instruct the script where to find extension directories.

## Create the Android packages

To make Android packages for your project, do the following:

1.  Build the extension, as described [previously](#documentation/android_extensions/write_an_extension/build_the_extension). This will create the `xwalk-audiofs-extension/` directory with the extension files inside.

2.  After the build, the extension project directory (`xwalk-audiofs-extension-src/`) will contain a `lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}` directory, which is an unpacked Crosswalk Android distribution. You can use the scripts in here to build the Android packages.

    Ensure you have installed the Android SDK correctly ([Windows](#documentation/getting_started/windows_host_setup/Install-the-Android-SDK), [Linux](#documentation/getting_started/linux_host_setup/Install-the-Android-SDK)). Then use these commands to create the packages:

        # set an environment variable to the location of the project
        $ PROJECT_DIR=~/<my projects directory>/xwalk-player-project

        # enter the unpacked Crosswalk Android directory
        $ cd $PROJECT_DIR
        $ cd xwalk-audiofs-extension-src/lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}

        # invoke the package builder
        $ python make_apk.py --enable-remote-debugging \
            --manifest=$PROJECT_DIR/xwalk-player/manifest.json \
            --extensions=$PROJECT_DIR/xwalk-audiofs-extension-src/xwalk-audiofs-extension/

    The generated packages are in the `~/<my projects directory>/xwalk-player-project/xwalk-audiofs-extension-src/lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}` directory, and called `xwalk_player_x86.apk` and `xwalk_player_arm.apk`.

    Note that if you are using multiple extension directories, you still have a single `--extensions` option but supply the paths as a comma-delimited string, e.g.

        --extensions=myextension1,myextension2

## Install a package on a target

Choose the correct package for your Android target's architecture and install it with a command like:

    $ adb install -r ~/<my projects directory>/xwalk-player-project/xwalk-audiofs-extension-src/lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}/xwalk_player_x86.apk

This command installs the x86 package. For more details about installing Crosswalk packages on Android, see [this page](#documentation/getting_started/run_on_android).

The icon for the application should now be in the application menu on the Android target. Tap the icon to start the application and you should see something like this:

![Crosswalk Android application with extensions on x86 ZTE Geek](assets/android-extensions-x86.png)

(The screenshot above shows the application running on an x86 ZTE Geek.)

The application should display a list of audio files, with usable play/pause buttons for each. Even though the interface is very primitive, and you can't seek within audio files, it does demonstrate communication between the Java and JavaScript sides of a Crosswalk extension.

Commit message:

[Android ext] Rewrite as simpler 'echo' example
As it's not possible to play audio files from file:// URIs in
versions of Crosswalk > 4 and < 8, replace the Android extensions
tutorial with a simpler "echo" tutorial.

This is also hopefully more useful to developers, as it contains
less code (generally) and should make it easier for them to
understand the parts of an extension and how they interact.

documentation/Android_extensions/31-Run_on_Android.md, after:

# Run on Android

Building a Crosswalk Android application with extensions is almost identical to building any other Crosswalk Android application, and uses the same `make_apk.py` script (see the [*Run on Android* documentation](#documentation/getting_started/run_on_android)). The main difference is that an additional `--extensions` option is required, to instruct the script where to find extension directories.

## Create the Android packages

To make Android packages for your project, do the following:

1.  Build the extension, as described [previously](#documentation/android_extensions/write_an_extension/build_the_extension). This will create the `xwalk-echo-extension/` directory with the extension files inside.

2.  After the build, the extension project directory (`xwalk-echo-extension-src/`) will contain a `lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}` directory, which is an unpacked Crosswalk Android distribution. You can use the scripts in here to build the Android packages.

    Ensure you have installed the Android SDK correctly ([Windows](#documentation/getting_started/windows_host_setup/Install-the-Android-SDK), [Linux](#documentation/getting_started/linux_host_setup/Install-the-Android-SDK)). Then use these commands to create the packages:

        # set an environment variable to the location of the project
        $ PROJECT_DIR=~/<my projects directory>/xwalk-echo-project

        # enter the unpacked Crosswalk Android directory
        $ cd $PROJECT_DIR/xwalk-echo-extension-src/lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}

        # invoke the package builder
        $ python make_apk.py --enable-remote-debugging --fullscreen \
            --manifest=$PROJECT_DIR/xwalk-echo-app/manifest.json \
            --extensions=$PROJECT_DIR/xwalk-echo-extension-src/xwalk-echo-extension/

    The generated packages are in the `~/<my projects directory>/xwalk-echo-project/xwalk-echo-extension-src/lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}` directory, and called `xwalk_echo_app_x86.apk` and `xwalk_echo_app_arm.apk`.

    Note that if you are using multiple extension directories, you still have a single `--extensions` option but supply the paths as a comma-delimited string, e.g.

        --extensions=myextension1,myextension2

## Install a package on a target

Choose the correct package for your Android target's architecture and install it with a command like:

    $ adb install -r ~/<my projects directory>/xwalk-echo-project/xwalk-echo-extension-src/lib/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}/xwalk_echo_app_x86.apk

This command installs the x86 package. For more details about installing Crosswalk packages on Android, see [this page](#documentation/getting_started/run_on_android).

The icon for the application should now be in the application menu on the Android target. Tap the icon to start the application and you should see something like this:

![Crosswalk Android application with extensions on x86 ZTE Geek](assets/android-extensions-x86.png)

(The screenshot above shows the application running on an x86 ZTE Geek.)

The application should display the text "You said: Hello world", which demonstrates that the Java and JavaScript parts of the Crosswalk extension are communicating correctly.
