documentation/Downloads/Canary.md, before:

# Canary Release
Everyday the build systems attempt to generate a new Canary for each platform and architecture. Canaries are available for the following:

<center>
<a class='primary-link' href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/android-x86/canary'>Android x86</a>&nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;<a class='primary-link' href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/android-arm/canary'>Android ARM</a>&nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;<a class='primary-link' href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/tizen-mobile/canary'>Tizen x86</a>
</center>

The Canary release is generated on a frequent basis (sometimes daily) based on a recent tip of master that passes a full build and automatic basic acceptance test. The Canary build is an easy option for developers who are interested in the absolute latest features, but don’t want to build Crosswalk themselves.

Information on the [Release Channels](#wiki/Release-methodology).
Description of [Crosswalk version numbers](#wiki/release-methodology/version-numbers).

Commit message:

Add links to channel viewer to download pages

documentation/Downloads/Canary.md, after:

# Canary Release
Everyday the build systems attempt to generate a new Canary for each platform and architecture. Canaries are available for the following:

<center>
<a class='primary-link' href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/android-x86/canary'>Android x86</a>&nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;<a class='primary-link' href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/android-arm/canary'>Android ARM</a>&nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;<a class='primary-link' href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/tizen-mobile/canary'>Tizen x86</a>
</center>

The Canary release is generated on a frequent basis (sometimes daily) based on a recent tip of master that passes a full build and automatic basic acceptance test. The Canary build is an easy option for developers who are interested in the absolute latest features, but don’t want to build Crosswalk themselves.

Information on the [Release Channels](#wiki/Release-methodology).

The [Channel Viewer](#contribute/channels-viewer) shows detailed information about the available release channels.

Description of [Crosswalk version numbers](#wiki/release-methodology/version-numbers).
