public/contribute/_overview.md, before:

# Contributing to Crosswalk

Crosswalk is an open source project. Source code is hosted on
[GitHub](http://github.com/crosswalk-project). Bugs, features, and issues
are tracked using [JIRA](https://crosswalk-project.org/jira).

## Building
The first step to contributing to Crosswalk is to get a build environment configured and operational. The [Building Crosswalk](/contribute/building_crosswalk.html) page provides that information. In addition to the binaries Crosswalk provides for the supported operating systems, the build infrastructure can generate projects for additional platforms.

## Debugging
Once you have a build environment, familiarize yourself with the debugging process. There are steps describing that
process in the [Crosswalk Developer's wiki](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-website/wiki/home/for-developers) page.

## Contributing
Now you just need to pick something to focus working on. You can look
through the [Issues](https://crosswalk-project.org/jira),
or hop on IRC and ask what people could use help on.

Be sure to follow the [contribution guidelines](/contribute/contributing-code.html) as you develop your changes. By submitting your contributions to the Crosswalk Project, you agree that your contributions are licensed to Intel under the terms of the [BSD 3 Clause license](http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause). If you do not agree to these licensing terms, please do not submit your contributions to the Crosswalk Project.

## Testing

For a quick overview of the overall test results for Crosswalk
binaries, see
[Crosswalk test result indicators](https://crosswalk-project.org/#wiki/Crosswalk-test-result-indicators).

Full details of everything related to test scope, test execution plan, and running tests
can be found on the [Crosswalk Testing Home](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-website/wiki/crosswalk-testing-home).

## Questions?
Jump on IRC and chat with other developers; they hang out on Freenode in the #crosswalk channel. Details in the [Community](/documentation/community.html) page.

Commit message:

Add test suite and contribution test documentation
To make community users know more about test suite
for Crosswalk Project, add two pages below:

1. Add "test_suite.md" under "Documentation" folder
2. Add "contributing_tests.md" under "Contribution"
folder
3. Update "##Testing" section in "_overview.md" in
"Contribution" folder

public/contribute/_overview.md, after:

# Contributing to Crosswalk

Crosswalk is an open source project. Source code is hosted on
[GitHub](http://github.com/crosswalk-project). Bugs, features, and issues
are tracked using [JIRA](https://crosswalk-project.org/jira).

## Building
The first step to contributing to Crosswalk is to get a build environment configured and operational. The [Building Crosswalk](/contribute/building_crosswalk.html) page provides that information. In addition to the binaries Crosswalk provides for the supported operating systems, the build infrastructure can generate projects for additional platforms.

## Debugging
Once you have a build environment, familiarize yourself with the debugging process. There are steps describing that
process in the [Crosswalk Developer's wiki](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-website/wiki/home/for-developers) page.

## Contributing
Now you just need to pick something to focus working on. You can look
through the [Issues](https://crosswalk-project.org/jira),
or hop on IRC and ask what people could use help on.

Be sure to follow the [contribution guidelines](/contribute/contributing-code.html) as you develop your changes. By submitting your contributions to the Crosswalk Project, you agree that your contributions are licensed to Intel under the terms of the [BSD 3 Clause license](http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause). If you do not agree to these licensing terms, please do not submit your contributions to the Crosswalk Project.

## Testing

For a quick overview of the overall test results for Crosswalk binaries, see [Crosswalk quality dashboard](/documentation/quality_dashboard.html).

Full details of everything related to test scope, test execution plan, and running tests can be found on the [Crosswalk testing home](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-website/wiki/crosswalk-testing-home).

You are welcome to contribute test cases for Crosswalk Project, the detailed process can be found in [contribute tests](/contribute/contributing_tests.html) page.

## Questions?
Jump on IRC and chat with other developers; they hang out on Freenode in the #crosswalk channel. Details in the [Community](/documentation/community.html) page.
