documentation/00-Getting_Started.md, before:

# Getting Started
This site is designed to help you get up and running with Crosswalk as quickly as possible.

## Step 1 - Download Crosswalk
The Crosswalk project currently provides binaries for Android and Tizen. Go to the [Downloads](#documentation/downloads) page, pick your operating system, and download.

## Step 2 - Install Crosswalk on your device
You can run Crosswalk either directly on a device supporting your selected operating system, or in one of the emulators provided by those operating system SDKs. 

You can find steps for installing Crosswalk onto the device or into the emulator on the [Installing Crosswalk](#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk) page.

## Step 3 - Package your application
Crosswalk applications are made up of your HTML5 files and a manifest 
file. When deploying your application, you would package those files 
into a single archive. During development you can skip that step. The 
steps for packaging your application are found on the [Building an 
application](#documentation/getting_started/Building_an_Application) 
page.

## Step 4 - Running your application
The steps for pushing your application to the target device and 
launching Crosswalk with your application are covered on the [Running an 
Application](#documentation/getting_started/Running_an_Application) 
page.

Commit message:

First draft of new Getting Started
I've split the content over more files (so I could include
both Windows and Linux as hosts, and Tizen and Android as targets).

I removed "Developing on Windows" and incorporated its content
into the new files.

documentation/00-Getting_Started.md, after:

# Getting started with Crosswalk

This tutorial is designed to help you get up and running with Crosswalk as quickly as possible.

This tutorial covers:

*   How to set up the tools needed to deploy Crosswalk applications, on Linux or Windows.
*   How to build and run simple HTML5 applications using stable releases of Crosswalk. The versions used for this tutorial are:
    *   Crosswalk Android for x86, version ${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}
    *   Crosswalk Tizen for x86, version ${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}

This tutorial doesn't cover:

*   How to write HTML5 applications. We use the simplest possible HTML5 application for this tutorial, so we can focus on the packaging and deployment aspects of Crosswalk.
*   How to use Crosswalk-specific APIs. The code in the tutorial should run perfectly well on any modern web browser, as well as on Crosswalk.
*   How to write [Crosswalk extensions](#wiki/Crosswalk-Extensions). This will be covered in other tutorials.
*   How to compile Crosswalk itself. This is covered in the [Contribute](#contribute) section.

You will need to be comfortable using a command line to follow this tutorial.

By the end of the tutorial, you should understand the workflow for creating Crosswalk applications from your own HTML5 projects.
