documentation/01-Downloads.md, before:

# Downloads

The Crosswalk project provides binaries for multiple operating systems and platforms. See the links provided below for detailed per-operating system installation instructions.

## Stable Release
<!-- See versions.js for how the ${XWALK-*} variable is replaced -->
<table width=100%>
<thead style='font-weight:bold'><tr><td>Platform</td><td>Latest Version</td><td>Instructions</td>
<td>Release notes</td></tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>Android x86</td><td><a href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/android-x86/stable/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}-x86.zip'>crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}-x86.zip</a></td>
<td><a href='#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk/android'>Installation</a></td>
<td class="nowrap"><a href='#wiki/Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86-MAJOR}-release-notes'>Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86-MAJOR}</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>Tizen x86</td><td><a href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/tizen-mobile/stable/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm'>crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm</a></td><td><a href='#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk/tizen'>Installation</a></td>
<td class="nowrap"><a href='#wiki/Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}-release-notes'>Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>Tizen x86 Emulator</td><td><a href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/tizen-mobile/stable/crosswalk-emulator-support-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm'>crosswalk-emulator-support-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm</a></td><td><a href='#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk/tizen'>Installation</a></td>
<td class="nowrap"><a href='#wiki/Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}-release-notes'>Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}</a></td></tr></tbody>
</table>

[More releases...](https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/)

A Stable release is an end-user targeting release. Once a Crosswalk release is promoted to the Stable channel, that release will only see new binaries for critical bugs and security issues.

Information on the [Release Channels](#wiki/Release-methodology).
Description of [Crosswalk version numbers](#wiki/release-methodology/version-numbers).

Commit message:

Add links to channel viewer to download pages

documentation/01-Downloads.md, after:

# Downloads

The Crosswalk project provides binaries for multiple operating systems and platforms. See the links provided below for detailed per-operating system installation instructions.

## Stable Release
<!-- See versions.js for how the ${XWALK-*} variable is replaced -->
<table width=100%>
<thead style='font-weight:bold'><tr><td>Platform</td><td>Latest Version</td><td>Instructions</td>
<td>Release notes</td></tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>Android x86</td><td><a href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/android-x86/stable/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}-x86.zip'>crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86}-x86.zip</a></td>
<td><a href='#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk/android'>Installation</a></td>
<td class="nowrap"><a href='#wiki/Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86-MAJOR}-release-notes'>Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-ANDROID-X86-MAJOR}</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>Tizen x86</td><td><a href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/tizen-mobile/stable/crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm'>crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm</a></td><td><a href='#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk/tizen'>Installation</a></td>
<td class="nowrap"><a href='#wiki/Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}-release-notes'>Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>Tizen x86 Emulator</td><td><a href='https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/tizen-mobile/stable/crosswalk-emulator-support-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm'>crosswalk-emulator-support-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86}-0.i586.rpm</a></td><td><a href='#documentation/getting_started/installing_crosswalk/tizen'>Installation</a></td>
<td class="nowrap"><a href='#wiki/Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}-release-notes'>Crosswalk-${XWALK-STABLE-TIZEN-X86-MAJOR}</a></td></tr></tbody>
</table>

[More releases...](https://download.01.org/crosswalk/releases/)

A Stable release is an end-user targeting release. Once a Crosswalk release is promoted to the Stable channel, that release will only see new binaries for critical bugs and security issues.

Information on the [Release Channels](#wiki/Release-methodology).

The [Channel Viewer](#contribute/channels-viewer) shows detailed information about the available release channels.

Description of [Crosswalk version numbers](#wiki/release-methodology/version-numbers).
