documentation/70-Samples.md, before:

# Samples

We have packaged some simple applications to get you up and running with Crosswalk. These applications are <a href="https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/archive/0.5.tar.gz">available as a download</a>. The source code is <a href="https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/" target="_blank">on github</a> (MIT licence).

To use the samples, download the sample archive, then unpack it from the command line:

```sh
tar xvf crosswalk-samples-0.5.tar.gz
```

This will create a `crosswalk-samples-0.5` directory with several project sub-directories:

*   `extensions-android` &ndash; A simple Crosswalk Android extension example. The [Android extensions tutorial](#documentation/android_extensions) explains how this was developed. See [this README](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/blob/master/extensions-android/README.md) for build instructions.

*   `hello_world` &ndash; A minimal example.

*   `simd-mandelbrot` &ndash; An example of using Crosswalk's native support for [SIMD](https://github.com/johnmccutchan/ecmascript_simd).

*   `tizen_apis` &ndash; A sample application using the Tizen APIs.

*   `webgl` &ndash; An example of how to use WebGL in Crosswalk via [three.js](http://threejs.org/).

For more information about the samples, follow the links in the menu.

Commit message:

[WebRTC] Add WebRTC sample to crosswalk-samples

documentation/70-Samples.md, after:

# Samples

We have packaged some simple applications to get you up and running with Crosswalk. These applications are <a href="https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/archive/0.6.tar.gz">available as a download</a>. The source code is <a href="https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/" target="_blank">on github</a> (MIT licence).

To use the samples, download the sample archive, then unpack it from the command line:

```sh
tar xvf crosswalk-samples-0.6.tar.gz
```

This will create a `crosswalk-samples-0.6` directory with several project sub-directories:

*   `extensions-android` &ndash; A simple Crosswalk Android extension example. The [Android extensions tutorial](#documentation/android_extensions) explains how this was developed. See [this README](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/blob/master/extensions-android/README.md) for build instructions.

*   `hello_world` &ndash; A minimal example.

*   `simd-mandelbrot` &ndash; An example of using Crosswalk's native support for [SIMD](https://github.com/johnmccutchan/ecmascript_simd).

*   `tizen_apis` &ndash; A sample application using the Tizen APIs.

*   `webgl` &ndash; An example of how to use WebGL in Crosswalk via [three.js](http://threejs.org/).

*   `webrtc` &ndash; An example of using the [WebRTC API](http://www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/) in Crosswalk. This is the example developed in the [WebRTC tutorial](#documentation/webrtc). See [this README](https://github.com/crosswalk-project/crosswalk-samples/blob/master/webrtc/README.md) for build instructions.

For more information about the samples, follow the links in the menu.
